Add Slurm to Flyte 2 migration guide (#1384)
unionai/docs: content/user-guide/migration/from-slurm.md

backed by object storage that tasks mount and read like a local directory, with copy-on-write forks
for parallel branches of work.

{{< /markdown >}}
{{< /variant >}}

Docs: [Files and directories](../tasks/task-programming/files-and-directories) &middot; [Pod templates](../tasks/task-configuration/pod-templates)

---

## Watching and debugging jobs

`squeue` and `sacct` map onto the CLI and the UI:

```bash
flyte get run                # recent runs and their phases
flyte get run <run-name>     # actions within a run
flyte get logs <run-name>    # streaming logs
```

Runs are also visible in the UI with per-task logs, GPU and memory utilization, and inputs and
outputs for every action.

{{< variant union >}}
{{< markdown >}}
`srun --pty bash` and `ssh node042` also have equivalents. A run launched with `--debug` (or
`debug=True` from the SDK) starts a browser-based VS Code session inside the task pod, where you can
set breakpoints and step through the code on the same hardware, against the same data and
dependencies the run uses. Any running action can also be opened from the UI with one click, and SSH
directly into the task pod is available in beta.

> The scope is narrower than an ssh session on a Slurm node, which helps: you land inside the failing

Reviewer: we actually have this feature too, where you can ssh into the node: https://www.union.ai/docs/v2/union/user-guide/tasks/task-deployment/debug-runs/#ssh-into-the-task-beta. so this is essentially the same functionality that slurm offers.

   the image and data-access questions.
2. **Move single-node training next.** By this point the image is validated and the data is coming
   in as arguments, so what you pick up is reproducible environments, spot with automatic fallback,
   checkpoint recovery, and run metadata.
3. **Move multi-node training last.** It is the most performance-sensitive workload in the stack,
   and by the time you get to it, everything underneath it has already been exercised.

Existing binaries do not have to be rewritten to come along. A
[container task](../tasks/task-programming/container-tasks) runs an arbitrary image with typed
inputs and outputs, whatever language the tool is written in, which covers the bioinformatics
binaries and vendor CLIs that tend to be wrapped in `srun` today.

For the inner loop, `flyte run --local` executes the same code in your local Python process with no
cluster involved, which is the closest thing to iterating on the login node before submitting.

Docs: [Running locally](../get-started/run-modes/running-locally) &middot; [Container tasks](../tasks/task-programming/container-tasks)

---

> 

Reviewer: should we also add a link to the slurm skill i added support for today? https://www.union.ai/docs/latest/union/api-reference/agent-plugins/#migration-slurm--flyte-2

Reviewer 2: agreed

## Scheduler features that do not have an equivalent yet

Three things Slurm's scheduler does are not available today, and if your workload depends on them,
plan around them explicitly:

- **Gang admission.** A clustered task's replicas are launched together and `torchrun` waits for the

>   full group before training starts, but scheduler-level all-or-nothing admission is not in place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    full group before training starts, but scheduler-level all-or-nothing admission is in the works and will be supported soon.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't want to make roadmap promises in the docs

> - **Topology-aware placement.** There is no way to ask for workers on the same rack or switch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Topology-aware placement.** There is currently no way to request workers on the same rack or switch. We plan to support this soon as well.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't want to make roadmap promises in the docs

- **Preemption.** Nothing evicts running low-priority work to make room for high-priority work the
  way a Slurm QOS can. Priority affects the order work starts in, not what happens to work that has

>   already started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  already started. Preemption is something we plan to prioritize in the near future but let us know if this is a priority to you.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't want to make roadmap promises in the docs
